## introduction

Open Source is a large-scale collaborative production method that is explored by human beings in the process of Internet development. It aims at open sharing, cooperation and win-win, and effectively promotes the globalization process. At present, the enthusiasm of Chinese developers and enterprises to participate in open source is constantly rising, and the open source industry is gradually improving; however, there are still many problems in China's open source environment, technology, talents, and ecology. Promoting open source exchanges and cooperation at home and abroad, promoting the combination of production, education and research, protecting the interests of the vast number of open source participants, and creating an open source ecosystem with influence and sustainable development is an important task of the relevant industry.

An open source license is a legally binding format contract that regulates and constrains the use, replication, modification, and distribution of open source software and is the cornerstone of the open source movement. Currently, there are more than 80 open source software licenses certified by the Open Source Initiative (OSI), all of which are published in English by foreign or international organizations. For the majority of open source participants from all over the world, the terms of the existing licenses are relatively embarrassing and can easily be breached due to misunderstanding. At the same time, many licenses are not sufficiently complete to express the responsibilities and obligations of the licensee, which may lead to difficult legal disputes. In addition, the current international situation requires more voices and strengths from different parts of the world to advocate for open source.

Based on the above considerations, Peking University is the sub-task leader of the national key research and development program "Cloud Computing and Big Data Open Source Community Ecosystem", relying on the National Beacon Committee Cloud Computing Standard Working Group and China Open Source Cloud Alliance, the United Nations open source ecosystem The research and development team, the open source community and many lawyers with rich experience in intellectual property rights jointly drafted, revised and released the Mulan series open source license based on the comprehensive analysis of the existing mainstream open source agreements.

The first issue, the Mulan PSL v1, has the following characteristics:

1. The contents of the license are expressed in both Chinese and English. The Chinese and English versions have the same legal effect, which is convenient for more open source participants to read and use, which simplifies the complexity of Chinese users in legal interpretation.

2. The license expressly grants users permanent, global, free, non-exclusive, irrevocable copyright and patent licenses, and specifically prohibits "contributors" or "associations" against the current issue of mutual vulnerabilities in patent alliances. The entity "directly or indirectly (through agents, patent licensees or assignees) conducts patent litigation or other activist actions, otherwise terminates the patent license.

3. The license clearly does not provide trademark licenses for "contributors" such as product names, trademarks, service marks, etc., and protects the vital interests of "contributors".

4. The license is jointly revised by technical experts and legal experts. Under the premise of clarifying the behavioral constraints of both parties of the contract, the terms should be streamlined as much as possible, and the risk of legal disputes should be reduced.

Contributed by: Peking University, China Electronics Technology Standardization Institute, Southwest University, Institute of Software, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Open Source, China Mobile (Suzhou) Software Technology Co., Ltd., Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd., Huayun Data Group Co., Ltd., Puyuan Information Technology Co., Ltd., ZTE Corporation, Zhongbiao Software Co., Ltd., etc.
